`@plone/registry` as ESM module, move to TS, complete documentation (#6399)
plone/volto: packages/registry/docs/howto/how-to-register-and-retrieving-components.md

> # How to register and retrieving components from the registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to register and retrieve components from the registry
```

> ### Register components by name using `config.registerComponent`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Register components by name
```

> You can register components by name, typically from an add-on or project configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can register components by name, typically from an add-on or project configuration, using `config.registerComponent`.
```

```js
import MyToolbarComponent from './MyToolbarComponent'

config.registerComponent({
  name: 'Toolbar',
  component: MyToolbarComponent,
});
```

> ### Retrieve a component from the component registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Retrieve a component from the component registry
```

> You can programmatically retrieve a component from the registry using `config.getComponent`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can programmatically retrieve a component from the registry using `config.getComponent`.
```

```js
const Toolbar = config.getComponent('Toolbar').component
```

> Or you can retrieve a component by using the convenience component `Component`, if you want to use it in JSX code directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can retrieve a component by using the convenience component `Component`, if you want to use it in JSX code directly.
```

```jsx
import Component from '@plone/volto/components/theme/Component/Component';

<Component componentName="Toolbar" {...props} />
```

Note that you can pass `props` down to the retrieved component.

> ### Adapt the component using the `dependencies` array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adapt the component
```

> You can register components, then retrieve them, given a list of modifiers using `dependencies`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can register components, then retrieve them, given a list of modifiers using the `dependencies` array.
```

```js
import MyTeaserNewsItemComponent from './MyTeaserNewsItemComponent'

config.registerComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    component: MyTeaserNewsItemComponent,
    dependencies: 'News Item',
  });
```

> And then retrieve the component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retrieve the component, use `getComponent`.
```

```js
config.getComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    dependencies: ['News Item'],
  }).component
```

> You can have both, either with or without dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can have both, either with or without dependencies.
```

```js
import MyTeaserDefaultComponent from './MyTeaserDefaultComponent'
import MyTeaserNewsItemComponent from './MyTeaserNewsItemComponent'

config.registerComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    component: MyTeaserDefaultComponent,
  });

config.registerComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    component: MyTeaserNewsItemComponent,
    dependencies: 'News Item',
  });
```

> Then retrieve them both, depending on the use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you register them, you can retrieve both or either of them, depending on your use case.
```

> In the example, given a content type value coming from the `content` prop, you would retrieve them as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next example, given a content type value coming from the `content` prop, you can retrieve them.
```

```jsx
<Component componentName="Toolbar" dependencies={[props.content['@type']]} {...props} />
```

> ### Lazy load components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Lazy load components
```

> **TODO** Test it properly

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```{todo}
Test it properly.
```
````

> You could lazy load the component too in the registry, if you need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can lazy load the component in the registry, too, if you need it.
```

## Register components by name

You can register components by name, typically from an add-on or project configuration, using `config.registerComponent`.

```js
import MyToolbarComponent from './MyToolbarComponent'

config.registerComponent({
  name: 'Toolbar',
  component: MyToolbarComponent,
});
```

## Retrieve a component from the component registry

You can programmatically retrieve a component from the registry using `config.getComponent`.

```js
const Toolbar = config.getComponent('Toolbar').component
```

Alternatively, you can retrieve a component by using the convenience component `Component`, if you want to use it in JSX code directly.

```jsx
import Component from '@plone/volto/components/theme/Component/Component';

<Component componentName="Toolbar" {...props} />
```

Note that you can pass `props` down to the retrieved component.

## Adapt the component

You can register components, then retrieve them, given a list of modifiers using the `dependencies` array.

```js
import MyTeaserNewsItemComponent from './MyTeaserNewsItemComponent'

config.registerComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    component: MyTeaserNewsItemComponent,

>     dependencies: 'News Item',

Author: Good point I will add that it can be a string too.

>     dependencies: 'News Item',

Author: I fixed the example and clarified the use case of a single dependency.
